Linux Assessment-1

1.Which command is used to move a file from one directory to another?
mv

2.How do you change the permissions of a file to be readable, writable, and executable by the owner only?
chmod

3.What command would you use to rename a directory called oldfolder to newfolder?
mv oldfolder newfolder

4.What is the command to display all active processes running on your system?
ps

5.What is the command to check the available free memory on your system?
free

6.What command would you use to delete a directory named myfolder along with all its contents, including files and subdirectories?  
rm myfolder

7.What is the command to find the size of all files and directories, sorted in descending order?
ls -S

8.How would you recursively change the ownership of all files in a directory, but only for files and not for subdirectories?
-R

9.Which command would you use to display disk space usage in human-readable format, but only for a specific directory and its subdirectories?
top -h

10.Use the ping command to check the connectivity to google.com. What result indicates that the server is reachable?
ping google.com. it show 246 packets transmitted, 246 received, 0% packet loss, time 245402ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 1.812/2.312/3.201/0.237 ms

11.How do you check the size of all files in a directory that are larger than 50MB?
du

12.What command would you use to find and delete files older than 1 day in a specific directory?
ls and rm filename

13.What is the difference between df and du commands? When should you use each?
df- display the amount of disk space used and remaining available space and total used space
du-display to estimate space in specific file or directory

14.What is the difference between using symbolic mode (chmod u+x) and numeric mode (chmod 755) with the chmod command, and when would you prefer one over the other?
Symoblic mode is specifying for permissions to user,it is a combination of letters and operators to tell what to do with permissions. (chmod u+x) - It makes a file executable for everyone like owner,group and others.

Numeric mode is also a method for specifying permissions. In this we specify permission using three-digit number.
First digit specify the permission for Owner.
Second digit specify the permission for Group.
Third digit specify the permission for Others. The digits is 755 => 7-> 4+2+1-owner 5->4+1-group 5->4+1-other
In this case the owner can write, read and execute a file, group and other can only read and execute a file.

15.You want to make a script executable by the owner and readable by the group, but no permissions for others. Which chmod command would you use, and how do you interpret the permission setting?
chmod 140

16.How would you list the top 2 processes consuming the most memory on a Linux system?
top

17.A user accidentally changes the permissions on an entire directory structure, making it inaccessible to the root user (chmod 000 /user/directory). How can you regain access to the directory and its contents?
sudo chmod777

18.You are tasked with setting up a shared directory for a group of developers, but you need to ensure that any files they create in the directory are owned by the group, not the individual user. What combination of commands and configurations would you use to achieve this?
sudo mkdir, sudo chown, sudo chmod

19.A server is experiencing high load, and some processes seem to be consuming excessive memory. You’ve been tasked to identify the specific processes causing the issue and terminate them. How would you approach this task using available Linux commands?
top, kill

20.Explain how SSH (Secure Shell) works and describe the difference between password-based authentication and key-based authentication. Which method is more secure, and why? (Presentation for 1 to 2 mins).

SSH is a protocol which allow secure access to remote machine.It is a way of two computer to communicate with each others over a internet.Since it is not secure
For that communicate from local to remote machine securely using ssh.It is used to login to server/machine in remote here we have cloud aws server
we can perform operation and managed the server through ssh .ssh will be managed server to transfer the file and execute a command to remote machine
Password based authentication - user can create a strong password ,it's easy to crack the password
Key based authentication - here we are generating keypair like public and private key
private key stored in user machine and public key stored in remote machine
private key is decrypted the data or proof of identify to the server
public key store in remote machine under directory we are trying to user with ssh
Private key is more secured compare to password because of key is not share to anyone

21.How do you SSH into the remote machine? Describe the command you would use.
ssh -i "filepath"username@ip address of remotemachine
ssh -i "c:/users/swathi/.ssh/id_rsa" swathi@34.205.146.128
